Domain: Cloud Security 
Question 1: Cloud Access Control
How would you control access to a cloud network? 
1.Restate the Problem 

2.Provide a Concrete Example Scenario 
o In Project 1, did you deploy an on-premises or cloud network? 
o Did you have to configure access controls to this network? 
o What kinds of access controls did you configure, and why were they necessary? 
o How do these details relate to the interview question? 

3.Explain the Solution Requirements 
o In Project 1, what kinds of access controls did you have to implement? Consider: 
 NSGs around the VNet? Around the VMs? 
 Local firewalls (ufw, etc.) on each VM? 
 Protocol allow/deny lists? 
o What did each access control achieve, and why was this restriction necessary for the project? 

4.Explain the Solution Details 
o Which rules do you set for each NSG in the network? 
o How does access to the jump box work? 
o How does access from the jump box to the web servers work? 

5.Identify Advantages/Disadvantages of the Solution oDoes your solution scale? 
o Is there a better solution than a jump box? 
o What are the disadvantages of implementing a VPN that kept you from doing it this time? 
o What are the advantages of a VPN? 
o When is it appropriate to use a VPN? 

Question 2: Corporate VPN 

What are the advantages and disadvantages of using a corporate VPN, and under what circumstances is using one appropriate? 
1.Restate the Problem 

2.Provide a Concrete Example Scenario 
o In Project 1, which VMs did you have on the network? 
o Which tools did you use to control access to and from the network? 
o If you didn't use a VPN, what did you use? 
o What disadvantage(s) did your non-VPN solution have? 
o What advantage(s) did your non-VPN solution have? 

3.Explain the Solution Requirements 
o Would a VPN meet the access control requirements you had for Project 1?  
o How would a VPN protect the network just as well, or better, than your current solution? 

4.Explain the Solution Details oWhich Azure tools would you use to implement a VPN to your Project 1 network? 
o How would you onboard users to the new VPN system? 

5.Identify Advantages and Disadvantages of the Solution 
o In Project 1, would a VPN have been an appropriate access control solution? 
o Under what circumstances is a VPN a good solution? 
o When, if ever, is a VPN "overkill"? 

Question 3: Containers
When is it appropriate to use containers in cloud deployments, and what are the security benefits of doing so? 

1.Restate the Problem 

2.Provide a Concrete Example Scenario  
o In Project 1, when did you use containers? oWhat did you use containers for? 

3.Explain the Solution Requirements oWhy was this an appropriate use for containers? oWhat security benefits did you expect from using containers? 

4.Explain the Solution Details 
o In Project 1, how did you configure VMs to be able to run containers? 
o How did you select and install the correct container? oHow did you verify that it was running correctly? 
5.Identify Advantages/Disadvantages of the Solution 
o How would you have achieved the same thing without containers? 
o What are the advantages to doing it without containers? 
o What are the disadvantages? 
Question 4: Cloud Infrastructure as CodeWhat are the security benefits of defining cloud infrastructure as code? 
1.Restate the Problem 
2.Provide a Concrete Example Scenario 
o In Project 1, when did you use infrastructure as code (IaC)? oWhat tool did you use? 
o What did you use it to do? 
3.Explain the Solution Requirements 
o Were there any alternatives to IaC? 
o What benefits does IaC have over alternative approaches? 
4.Explain the Solution Details oIn Project 1, which specific configurations did your IaC set up? 
o How did you run and test these configurations? 
5.Identify Advantages/Disadvantages of the Solution 
o Are there any disadvantages to using IaC over
